[Java]: Java cookbook recipes (#113)
apache/arrow-cookbook: java/source/create.rst

======================

> Creating arrow objects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating Arrow Objects
```

Reviewer: If this is meant to be analogous to the pages for C++/Python, can we add a subheading for Vectors, and then possibly a subheading for VectorSchemaRoot?

Author: Changed

======================

> A vector is the basic unit in the java arrow columnar format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A vector is the basic unit in the Arrow Java library.
```

Reviewer: I'm not going to go through and mark all of these, but let's please make sure to capitalize names properly.

Author: Changed

> Vectors are provided by java arrow for the interface FieldVector that extends ValueVector.

Reviewer: Can we link to Javadocs? Is there an extension that can automate this in the same way intersphinx does for Sphinx docs?

Reviewer: What is the distinction between FieldVector and ValueVector?

Reviewer: Maybe we should explain that vectors in Java are intended to be mutable, since that will also be foreign to users of other Arrow libraries.

Author: Changed

We are going to use this util for creating arrow objects:

.. code-block:: java

   import org.apache.arrow.memory.RootAllocator;
   import org.apache.arrow.vector.BitVectorHelper;
   import org.apache.arrow.vector.IntVector;
   import org.apache.arrow.vector.VarCharVector;
   import org.apache.arrow.vector.complex.BaseRepeatedValueVector;
   import org.apache.arrow.vector.complex.ListVector;
   import org.apache.arrow.vector.types.Types;
   import org.apache.arrow.vector.types.pojo.FieldType;

   import java.util.List;

   void setVector(IntVector vector, Integer... values) {
       final int length = values.length;

>        vector.allocateNew(length);

Reviewer: It's unexplained what allocateNew, set, setSafe, setValueCount, etc. actually do and why you might need them.

       for (int i = 0; i < length; i++) {
           if (values[i] != null) {
               vector.set(i, values[i]);
           }
       }
       vector.setValueCount(length);
   }

   void setVector(VarCharVector vector, byte[]... values) {
       final int length = values.length;
       vector.allocateNewSafe();
       for (int i = 0; i < length; i++) {
           if (values[i] != null) {
               vector.set(i, values[i]);
           }
       }
       vector.setValueCount(length);
   }

   void setVector(ListVector vector, List<Integer>... values) {
       vector.allocateNewSafe();
       Types.MinorType type = Types.MinorType.INT;
       vector.addOrGetVector(FieldType.nullable(type.getType()));

       IntVector dataVector = (IntVector) vector.getDataVector();
       dataVector.allocateNew();

       // set underlying vectors
       int curPos = 0;

>        vector.getOffsetBuffer().setInt(0, curPos);

Reviewer: Wow, I didn't realize ListVector required you to manipulate the offsets directly.

Author: We are using [java unit test code](https://github.com/apache/arrow/blob/16d5554ad2010bc7d224c7e3cad9b87188c92054/java/vector/src/test/java/org/apache/arrow/vector/testing/ValueVectorDataPopulator.java#L598) as a util methods in our cookbook

       for (int i = 0; i < values.length; i++) {
           if (values[i] == null) {
               BitVectorHelper.unsetBit(vector.getValidityBuffer(), i);
           } else {
               BitVectorHelper.setBit(vector.getValidityBuffer(), i);
               for (int value : values[i]) {
                   dataVector.setSafe(curPos, value);
                   curPos += 1;
               }
           }
           vector.getOffsetBuffer().setInt((i + 1) * BaseRepeatedValueVector.OFFSET_WIDTH, curPos);
       }
       dataVector.setValueCount(curPos);
       vector.setLastSet(values.length - 1);
       vector.setValueCount(values.length);
   }

   RootAllocator rootAllocator = new RootAllocator(Long.MAX_VALUE); // deal with byte buffer allocation

> Array of int

Reviewer: maybe ```Array of ``Int`` (32-bit integer)``` to assume less familiarity with the Java API?

Author: Changed

============

.. code-block:: java
   :emphasize-lines: 4

   import org.apache.arrow.vector.IntVector;

>    // create int vector

Reviewer: Is the comment helpful here? The example itself is pretty minimal

Author: Changed

>    IntVector intVector = new IntVector("intVector", rootAllocator);

Reviewer: It might be helpful to explain that this gets used as the field name? (Coming off of Python/C++, this will be rather foreign.)
